ANT and BEE

An Alphabetical Story for Tiny Tots

By ANGELA BANNER

Bee


Ant and bee lived in a

Cup


The cup made a very nice home.

Now one day someone bee and ant knew asked ant and bee to go for a ride on his

back.

He was a

Dog



Ant and Bee is a progressive ABC written as a story with simple words, some of which are printed in red and some in black. The words in red are to be called out by the child when it has learned to spell them out and to pronounce them. A grown-up then completes the sentences by reading the words in black as soon as the words in red have been called out by the child. Encouraged by the grown-up, the child will soon learn the words which it must read before the story can progress. In this way, the child will feel an interest in helping to tell the story and will, at the same time, gain confidence in reading and building up a small vocabulary.



Ant got on to the back of bee, then bee flew on to the back of dog.

All ready to go ....Off went ant and bee and dog .... Loppity - Lop, Loppity - Lop.

Suddenly !!!!!! on the path in front of dog and bee and ant there sat an

Egg





Dog and bee and ant could not see the egg because there was a thick

Fog





Fog looks like smoke.

In fog you cannot see very well where you are going.

Poor, poor dog he could not see where he was going because of the fog.

Dog trod on the egg .... Slip slish and a big boomp !

Dog banged into something near the path and it was a

Ant and Bee

and some

by the

<i>An Alphabetical Story for Tiny Tots</i>

and to the sen

by ANGELA BANNER

m as the

<i>Illustrations by BRYAN WARD</i>

&nbsp;

EDMUND WARD 16 NEW STREET, LEICESTER. ENGLAND

Gun





Someone must have left the gun by the path.

When dog trod on the egg it broke and was all slippery under his paw.

Dog slid for a long way and banged into the gun.

Ant and bee were not hurt at all, but poor dog had bumped his head against the gun and most terribly squashed his

Hat





Underneath his squashed hat poor dog had such a big lump on his head.

To make it better bee and ant got a piece of

Ice



TO JOHN

<i>Printed in England by Fleming &amp; Humphreys (Baylis) Ltd, Leicester</i>



Ice is made of very cold water, Bee and ant put the ice on the lump that poor dog got from banging into the gun.

The ice began to melt and drops began to drip so ant and bee fetched a small

Jug





Bee and ant put the jug near dog The bug caught all the melted ice drips that fell.

Soon dog was quite better. Dog put on his hat again.

Ant and bee got on to the back of dog Then off they went .... Loppity - Lop, Loppity - Lop..

At the end of the path they came to a door that was locked. They looked near and far ... Then clever bee found a

Key





It was quite a big key.
Dog held the key in his teeth and opened the door.
Dog left the key in the lock.
They all went through the doorway into a lovely garden.
What do you think they saw next ?
They saw a

This story is all about an

Leg





The leg belonged to a

Man





Dog asked the man why he was standing on one leg.
The man said he had to because his other leg caught in a

Net



Ant



The net was made of wire and had caught the man by the sock on his leg

Dog and ant and bee helped the man to get the net away from his sock. Soon his leg was not caught by the net any more.

The man was so pleased that he asked ant and bee and dog to go for a ride in his wheelbarrow, but first, he said, the wheel must have some

Oil





The man got a can full of oil
Oil is slippery and makes wheels go round easily.
When man had put oil on the wheel of his barrow, off they went.
Rumble - rumble, rumble -rumble.
The man said he would take them to see his

Pig





The pig was very big.
The pig had a tail that looked just like a



Q





The pig was very sad.
The pig was crying.
The pig said there was someone who came and ate up his food while he was asleep.
The pig said he was a

Rat





The man asked bee and dog and ant to help send the rat away.
Ant and bee went into the hole where rat lived and shooed rat out.
Then dog chased rat far away.
Dog got very hot because he had run so much.
What made dog more hot still was the

Sun







How brightly the sun was shining.
The sun was very hot. Dog got very thirsty.
The man showed dog where there was a

Tap





The man turned the tap on, but dear, oh dear, no water would come out.
The man said he knew a place where there was sure to be some water.
The man took dog to where there was an

Urn





The urn had a small tap.
The man turned the tap on the urn and water came out.
The man filled a jug with water for dog to drink. Dog was so thirsty that he finished all the water in the urn.
The sun was going down and it was getting dark.
Ant and bee were so far from their cup home, and dog was so tired, that the man was very kind and said that he would take them home in a

Ant lived with a great friend of his who was a

Van





It was a red van.
The van had plenty of room for them all. Off they went . . . . brrrrrrrrr, brrrrrrrrrr.
Bee and ant said they did not want to go back to their cup home.
They wanted to go and live with a spider friend who lived in a

Web





The web was very comfortable and their spider friend did not mind if ant and bee lived with him in his web.
Bee and ant waved good-bye and blew lots of

XXX



XXX mean kisses if you draw them on paper.
Ant and bee blew lots of X X X to dog and the man..
Dog waved his hat and blew lots of XXX to bee and ant who were sitting in-their new web home.
Brrrrrrrrrr, brrrrrrrrrr, off went dog and the man in the van.
The man asked dog where he lived.
Dog said he lived near a big tree called a

Yew




They could not see a yew tree anywhere.
On they went. . . brrrr, brrrr.
Suddenly they saw a yew tree.
The man asked dog if that was the yew tree near where dog lived.
Dog said it was.
The yew tree was near a

Zoo

Dog lived in a zoo.
A zoo is a place where animals all live in cages for people to look at.
Dog did not live in a cage.
He belonged to a keeper, who is someone who looks after the zoo animals.
Can you see where dog is in this picture of the zoo ?



