A TO ZEN
Ruth Wells
Yoshi

DARUMA
The next time you have a goal,
perhaps to do well on a test, you
may want to buy a daruma doll. They are made from papier-mache and
come in many sizes, always without eyes. You paint in one of the eyes
to indicate you have a goal. When you reach your goal, paint in the other
eye. If you have another goal, you need a new daruma. The shape of the
fat dolls comes from Bodai Daruma, the founder of Zen Buddhism in China,
who is said to have meditated so long that he lost the use of his arms and legs.

ETO
Are you clever? Perhaps you were born in the year
of the monkey. Eto is the Japanese zodiac, which
originated in ancient China. It is based on 12 animals (rat, ox, tiger,
hare, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and boar) and 5
elements (wood, fire, earth, metal, and water) combined to create a cycle of 60
years. Often arranged in a circle, they also indicate time and direction. The rat,
for instance, points north and stands for the two hours around midnight. Some
people believe they take on characteristics of the animal of their birth year.

FUTON
Japan's cities are crowded and every bit
of space must be used as efficiently as
possible. In a traditional Japanese home, one room is used for many
purposes such as living, dining, and sleeping. You sleep on a thick cotton
pad or futon, which is folded up in the morning and stored in a closet
until bedtime. The floors are covered with woven straw mats called
tatami, and instead of chairs there are cushions on the tatami.

GENKAN
The small entryway between the
street and the main living room is
the genkan. To keep the tatami clean, when you come into the house
leave your shoes in the genkan, but turn them toward the street so you
can slip into them easily when you go out. The sliding panels are made of
paper pasted on wooden frames and can be moved to make the rooms larger
or smaller.

HIROSHIMA
The war between Japan
and the United States
began when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941.
On August 6, 1945 the United States dropped an atomic bomb on the
city of Hiroshima, and within days the Japanese surrendered. Almost 90,000
people died in the explosion and even today some people suffer from diseases
caused by the radiation. A Peace Park was created in Hiroshima and each
year on August 6th people float lanterns past the Atomic Dome to remember
those who died and pray for lasting peace.

ICHINISAN
literally means "one two
three," or counting. You
can learn to count from one to ten in Japanese. Begin at the upper right
hand corner and read from top to bottom, right to left. "Ee-chee” is
how you pronounce 1, "nee” 2, "sahn” 3, "shee” 4, "go” 5, "ro-koo” 6,
"shi-chee” 7, "hah-chee” 8, "koo” 9, and "joo” 10. Japanese characters
are often based on ancient symbols called pictographs. Can you see where
one, two, and three come from?

JANKEN
Have you ever played the game rock,
scissors, paper? Japanese children do
too. They call it janken and when they play they call out, “Jan, ken, pon.”
Sometimes it's the same game American children play, but other times
it's a way to decide whose turn is next, sort of like “Eenie, meenie, minie,
moe.” The name comes from the word ken, which means fist.

KIMONO
Japanese once wore kimonos every
day, just as you wear jeans or skirts
and blouses. Today children wear kimonos only on festival days. Whether
they are made from silk or ordinary cotton, most kimonos are decorated—
with painting, tie dyeing and intricate stitchery. They are always made from
a single length of cloth 14 inches wide, that is first decorated and then cut into
eight rectangular panels without waste and stitched together with straight
seams. Some kimonos are so beautiful they are considered national treasures.

MOJI
means system of writing. In the middle column
above the kanji characters for “sun” and “root” or
“origin” are combined to make Nippon, which means the land of the
rising sun, or Japan. Kanji are Chinese characters which are based on
pictographs. Only about 2,000 kanji are used regularly, but there are over
45,000 in a complete dictionary. To the left of the kanji are the sounds for
Nippon in two phonetic alphabets: hiragana for Japanese words, and katakana
for words borrowed from Western languages. Kanji, hiragana, and katakana are
all used in Japanese writing, sometimes in the same sentence.

NIPPON
Millions of years ago undersea volcanoes
erupted and formed the string of islands
1,200 miles long that we know as Japan -- or Nippon. Almost two-thirds
of Japan is mountainous, and it has frequent earthquakes and occasional
volcanic eruptions. Japanese schoolchildren have earthquake drills just as you
have fire drills. It's about the same size as California, but Japan has about half
as many people as the United States. Most of them live in big cities like Tokyo
or Osaka. The climate is similar to the eastern coast of the United States—
colder in the north, hot in the south.

When people think of Japan, they
think of an ancient land with temples
and rock gardens, with eternal Mount
Fuji brooding above the islands. But
they also think of VCR's, bullet trains,
and the high-tech neon clutter of
Tokyo. Which is the real Japan?
They are both real, both very much
a part of modern Japan.
A to Zen opens up a series of windows
that show young readers the
broad sweep of Japanese culture. As
the title suggests, letters play a part
in the structure of this book, but this
is not merely an alphabet book about
Japan. Writer Ruth Wells has used
the Roman alphabet like an adventurer
uses a compass: the letters
point the way to new frontiers and
unexplored territory.

ORIGAMI
More than 600 years ago Japanese
children were folding squares of
colored paper into cranes, frogs, helmets, and birds. The most common
origami shape is the crane. If you have a wish you might want to make
a thousand cranes, or sembazuru, to help make your wish come true.
Many sembazuru hang in the Peace Park in Hiroshima, because the
crane is also a symbol of long life. Origami is used in Japanese schools to teach dexterity, precision, and basic concepts of geometry.

PACHINKO
Pachinko is a pinball game
with small steel balls that
the player tries to sink into holes in a brightly colored vertical board. The
name comes from the word pachin which describes the sound the balls
make when the game is played. You might have a toy pachinko at home,
but only adults can go into pachinko parlors where they play to win small
prizes. Millions of Japanese play pachinko every day.

RANDOSERU
As a child in Japan,
your randoseru or
knapsack follows you through school. It has compartments for books,
pencils, and lunch. These little girls are probably six and just starting first
grade. After several years their randoseru will be battered and worn, a sign
they are good students and carry lots of books between home and school.
Knapsacks were introduced into Japan by the Dutch, and randoseru is how
the Japanese pronounce the Dutch word for knapsack, “ransel."

SUSHI
is raw or slightly cooked seafood like tuna,
salmon, sea urchin, or octopus that is carefully
made into small portions with vinegar-flavored rice and vegetables.
Sushi can be shaped by hand, molded in a small box, or rolled in dried
seaweed. You eat sushi with chopsticks or your fingers, barely dipping each
piece into soy sauce with a little horseradish in it, then savoring the sweet taste.
Isn't this plate of sushi beautiful? For a sushi chef, the way a meal looks is almost
as important as how it tastes.

TANGO NO SEKKU
There are many festival days in Japan and some of the most colorful
are for children. For centuries Boys Day, Tango no Sekku, was celebrated
May 5th, but it is now considered Children's Day. Families fly carp
streamers in their gardens and display warrior dolls in their homes. Girls
Day or the Doll Festival, Momo no Sekku, is celebrated March 3rd. On
November 15th, Shichigosan, parents take children who are 7, 5, or 3 to
shrines to give thanks that their children have reached these ages.

UKIYO-E
Beautiful prints like this famous
picture of Mount Fuji are printed
from woodblocks and are called ukiyo-e, “oo-kee-oh-eh.” It takes four
master craftsmen to make ukiyo-e: the Artist who draws the picture,
the Woodcarver who cuts the image into one block of wood for each
color, the Papermaker who makes the paper by hand, and finally the
Printer who mixes the inks, paints them onto the woodblocks, and prints them
one by one onto the paper.

WOKUMAN
A Japanese company
called Sony invented the
compact tape player and light-weight headphones that go everywhere.
To name it, they made up the word “Walkman,” which in Japanese is
pronounced Wokuman. Before they introduced it in the United States,
they were told: “You can't call it Walkman; it's not proper English ” But
many people had already heard about the tiny tape players and wanted
to buy a “Walkman.” So Walkman it was.

YEN
Japanese money comes in 1, 5, 10, 50, 100 and 500
yen coins, and in 500,1,000,5,000 and 10,000 yen bills.
The bills are very colorful, with pictures of famous people like scholars or
writers. The blank areas are pictures in the paper called watermarks that you
can see when they are held up to the light. The amount of yen you can buy with
one United States dollar changes all the time. In 1971, one dollar was worth
about 300 yen—by 1991, one dollar was worth only about 125 yen.

ZEN
The two major religions in Japan are Shintoism and
Buddhism. People who practice Zen Buddhism try
to live a simple and disciplined life that is in harmony with nature. But the ideas
of Zen have been influential beyond religion. Think of this Zen rock garden as
our world on a simple scale: the raked gravel represents the ocean, the rocks
continents. Then think of how a piece of fabric can be simply decorated, cut
and stitched to create a kimono that is a national treasure. Or how the act of
serving tea can be transformed with grace and precision into a performance.
Beauty in simplicity is at the heart of Japanese culture.







Ruth Wells grew up on a farm and
has been a tractor driver, dishwasher,
newspaper reporter and editor. She
owned a children's bookstore, has
worked for several publishers, and
one of her favorite things in the whole
world is talking about children's
books — to children, parents, teachers,
librarians, or some stranger she meets
in a bookstore. She has two children
and lives in central Massachusetts at
the edge of a shining lake.
Yoshi is a Japanese-American artist,
and her stunning batik illustrations
are created with a centuries-old technique
still used to decorate the kimonos.
From her childhood, her years of art
school, and during subsequent visits
to her home in Japan, Yoshi has
amassed a wealth of striking images
and impressions. This is her sixth
picture book, but it is the first one
that allows her to draw upon this
rich and colorful heritage.
ISBN 0-88708-175-4

This book begins on the other side.
Picture
Book
Studio



A
Ruth Wells
To
a book of Japanese culture
Zen
Yoshi
Picture Book Studio

ABOUT THIS BOOK
Even before the first emperor of Japan began his reign in 660 B.C., Japanese
culture was well established. Today, this ancient land is one of the most
modern countries on Earth, and everywhere you can see the contrast between
old and new.
We considered hundreds of concepts, objects, and activities from every area of
Japanese life before choosing the 22 topic words. Because the Japanese language
has no sounds for the letters L, Q, V and X, there are no topics beginning with
these letters. Japanese has only five vowel sounds: a as in ah, i as in machine,
u as in moon, e as in met, and o as in no.
Yoshi's pictures were painted with dyes on silk cloth, using the same basic
techniques used to decorate kimonos. Like many other elements of Japanese
culture, these techniques originated in China, and Yoshi studied them when
she was an art student in Tokyo. She has modernized her techniques somewhat,
but the ancient traditions of the East remain.
Because this book is about an oriental country, we have given it an oriental
structure. The pages go from back to front and right to left, like a traditional
Japanese book. (Of course, Japanese people would say our books go from back
to front.) On each page, the topic word is shown in Japanese the way they read,
starting at the top right corner and reading down. It is also shown in English
the way we read, starting at the top left corner and reading to the right.
We have tried to give you words and images to bring today's Japan closer.
Now perhaps your imagination will add the quiet tinkle of temple bells, the
sweet taste of sushi, the cushion of tatami mats under your bare feet, the peace
of a Zen garden.

AIKIDO
Imagine that you know every move your
opponent is going to make. Now imagine
your opponent pushing you. Don't push back, pull him toward you—
he will fall forward and you will be in control! This is aikido: keeping
your mind open to anticipate your opponent's moves, then using his
own moves against him. Aikido comes from martial arts that are over
1,000 years old and were practiced by highly trained warriors. Now it is
practiced all over the world by ordinary men and women and even children.

BUNRAKU
A night at the bunraku puppet
theater is a dramatic trip back
in time. The puppets are half-life-size wooden dolls operated by three
men: the master puppeteer moves the doll's head, eyelids, eyeballs,
eyebrows, mouth, and right hand; a second moves only the left hand, and a
third moves the feet. A chanter tells the story, playing all the parts. The stories
are so compelling and the puppeteers and chanter so skillful, that you forget
these are dolls and are soon caught up in their struggles to be honorable people.

CHANOYU
There was a time when
chanoyu, the tea ceremony,
was performed only by Zen priests and samurai warriors, but now
anyone can study it. Chanoyu often takes place in a small building apart
from the house, so it is a way to escape the problems of daily life. And
chanoyu is so steeped in tradition— how the room is decorated, the artful
movements of the person who prepares and serves the tea, even how the dishes
are cleaned and put away— that the ceremony is also a performance.


