LOOK FOR THE LETTERS
A Hide and Seek Alphabet by H. A. REY



Butterflies in honeybees are buzzing by the baby blackbird



The cock calls: come chicks! Here is a caterpillar



Donald's daddy drives a sled drawn by three red reindeer



This elephant eats plenty of cherries He even has a cherry on his ear



A house on fire! The fireman fights the flames from the roof

$2.00
LOOK FOR THE LETTERS
A Hide and Seek Alphabet by H. A. REY

LOOK FOR THE LETTERS is an alphabet book — but an alphabet book such as an older generation never dreamt of. II. A. Rev. author-artist of the magic touch, has blown the dust from the dreary, plodding ABC’s of former days and has literally made them dance, with the result that the alphabet becomes one big twenty-six part game, the liveliest imaginable.
There are pictures not only for the letter a word liegins with but also for the letter when it comes in the middle or at the end of a word, where it is. after all. just as impot* taut. And besides just having a picture stand for the letter, Mr. Key has hidden letters all through his pictures and then put it up to the young reader to hnd them. And be sides this, the left-hand pages of the book show how to draw these ’’Pictures-with-the-letters in-them." as Mr. Rey calls them, using a colored pencil for the letter and a black pen-cil for dots and lines which make up the picture.
By combining the qualities of a truly delightful picture^ame book with the very practical business of instilling twenty-six letters into young memories. Mr. Rey gives children a book which will be a very prized possession.
HARPER &amp; BROTHERS. Publishers



The geese and the pig look big to the little bug



Harry is hungry. He will sit on the bench and have his ham sandwich for lunch



Is this big ice cream for Bill or for Dick or for Jim? I think they will divide it



In this jeep or two majors on a journey the jeep jumps through the jungle



The kind Keeper carries the key of the monkey cage





The lion blows out the candle, he will sleep it is late



The mouse sweeps his home with a broom at midnight



Nelly the nurse springs and I need new nightgown



The ostrich does not love the smoke of the locomotive



The painter is painting poppies in a picture

He has a puppy as a pet





The queen feed the squirrels
at a Quarter past Five on the Square



Ralph rows across the river
in a rowboat



The Snail's Sunday Supper
are these six sweet strawberries



Tom is trying his kite
His Terrier is thirsty you can tell by his tongue



Ursula is unhappy she cannot go out with uncle Gus because she has the Mumps

H.A. REY
LOOK FOR THE LETTERS
by H. A. REY
Harper &amp; Brothers Established 1817



In this vase are five lovely violets they look like blue velvet and have green leaves



The walrus has whiskers
He lives down near the water and waits



The fox opens his Xmas box with an ax



This youngster loves the yellow yolk of the egg do you ?



Funny Eliza has put a muzzle on the zebra

LOOK FOR THE LETTERS
Copyright, 1945, by H.A. Rey
Printed In the United States of America
All rights In this book ore reserved

That's all
Goodbye!





Other Harper Books
by H. A. REY
ELIZABITE, The Adventures of a Carnivorous Plant
"A unique creation from the unpredictable and always amusing brush of H. A. Rey ... a bright spot of hilarity in a darkened world."
-N. Y. Times.
"Rhymed couplets and hilarious four-color pictures calculated to amuse children five years old up to almost any age."—New Yorker.
TIT FOR TAT
"A 'turn-abput' book which ... will delight children even as young as four and up to ten ... and. since the drawings arc unusually good, perhaps the whole family will enjoy it." —Saturday Review of Literature.
HUMPTY DUMPTY, and Other Mother Goose Songs
"Charming song book of nursery rhymes . . . gay. colorful style. . . . The melodies are appealing and singable."—Library Journal.
WE THREE KINGS
"A cheery selection of old. familiar and favorite Christmas carols. ... It is full of the Christmas spirit and there's a chuckle on each picture |&gt;age; it will be fun for family sings." —Virginia Kirkus.
No. 5M9*



Dear
(Please fill in your name because this is a letter for you )
This la an ALPHABET BOOK. Of course you know Alphabet books. They have pictures which stand for the letters, one or more pictures for each letter from A to 2. That goes for this book too. But there'a something new besides.
First, there are not only pictures for the letter a word begins with, (as the "E" In Elephant or the "0" In Oeeae) but there are also pictures for the letter when it comes in tho middle of a word or at the end, as the *e" In Cherry or the "g" In Bug. We have to have those too, because otherwise Instead of a Cherry we would have a Chrry and Instead of a Bug we'd only have a Bu...
There's another thing NEW In this book. The pictures don't Just stand for the letters. No, the letters are really in the pictures. They are pert of them. There is a real "E" In the picture of the Elephant and a real "g" In the picture of the Bug. You will find it when you look for it. It's always a Capital letter if the word starts with it (as tho "E" In Elephant) and a lower case letter if it is in the word or at tho end.
Now perhaps you think that all you have to do is to read the sentence at the bottom of each page to find all the letters. But no, there are quite a few more letters hidden. In the Ostrich picture for Instance, can you sec the "o"s In the flowers on the ground? or the r s In the trees on the page where Ralph Is rowing his Rowboat? But I am not going to give myself away. You will have to find out for yourself.
There's one moro thing. The loft hand pages all through tho book show how you can do these Plctures-wlth-the-letters-In-them yourself. It's quite easy. And you can use a colored pencil for the letter Itself and an ordinary black pencil for all the dots and lines which make up tho picture, like this:
And now have fun while you LOOK FOR THE LETTERS'.
With many kind regards
H.A. Key


An airplane passes. All the rabbits watch from the lawn.


