A
A is for America
The land I love

A
AN AMERICAN ABC
By Maud and Miska Petersham

A
An American ABC
By Maud and Miska Petersham
New York The Macmillan Company 1941

A
An American ABC
By Maud and Miska Petersham
Two favorite authors present a panorama of our national heritage. “A is for America, the land we love” and B,—C,—D— and all the rest of the alphabet, represent those people, events, and attributes, that have made our country, and for which it stands. Finally ”Z” is for zeal”— the zeal that discovered America, that built it and that keeps it today. a land of liberty and freedom.
Twenty-six beautiful full page illustrations in color face twenty-six dramatic stories of the American spirit. We read of Columbus and Washington and Lincoln,—of Freedom and Independence,—of Old Glory and our National Anthem, —of the Liberty Bell and of Valley Forge. Text and pictures together make a treasure house of America’s story.
Here is a gay book but a serious one—a simple book but a book of great distinction. Here is a beautiful book planned first as a picture book for small children, but which will also interpret our country to newcomers from foreign lands, a book for every American whether he be five or fifty.
$2.00

B
B is for BELL Our Liberty Bell
It is a huge, proud bell older than our United States.
The great bell was made in London for the colony of
Pennsylvania. It was brought to America and hung in the State House at Philadelphia.
Once, long ago, this bell pealed out a message of
great importance. It was the news that the American
colonies were to be forever free and independent.
The State House in Philadelphia later came to be
called Independence Hall, and is still the home of
the Liberty Bell. Here, honored and loved, it stands
in state today, and reminds us of our good fortune.

C
C is for COLUMBUS Christopher Columbus
Christopher Columbus was an Italian
sailor who was born before America was known.
This sailor had a strange idea. As he watched ships
disappear far out over the ocean’s edge, he said, "The
earth must be round like a ball." And so he believed
that although India was a country to the east he
could reach it by sailing to the west.
But all the people laughed!
Columbus was so sure he was right that when he
could get no help in his own country he went to
Spain. The Spanish queen at last gave him three
tiny vessels and he set sail for India.
After many, many weeks the little sailing ships
reached the shores of a strange land where only red
men lived. Here was a new world, the land to be
called North and South America. Columbus believed
he had reached India. Columbus returned home and
told the wonderful things he had seen. Then other
daring men ventured to cross the seas and seek their
fortunes in this New World.

C
Copyright, 1941, by
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
All rights reserved—no part of this book
may be reproduced in any form without
permission in writing from the publisher, except
by a reviewer who wishes to quote brief
passages in connection with a review written
for inclusion in magazine or newspaper.
Published September, 1941
Second Printing October, 1941
Third Printing January, 1912
Lithographed in the United States of America by William C. D. Glaser. New York

D
D is for DANIEL BOONE
A trailmaker in this new country
Much of the New World was a wilderness covered
with forests. It was the home of tribes of redskins with
tomahawks and war paint. Only the bravest and
strongest of the white men could live here.
The white men and women who first settled this
country were called pioneers. One of the most fearless
pioneers was Daniel Boone. He could hunt as well as
the red man, and he could ride and run as fast and
as far.
Daniel Boone left his log-cabin home near the sea
and pushed his way through deep forests where no
white man had ever set foot. He went on and on into
the wilderness. He made trails into unknown parts of
the country.
The settlers and their families followed after Daniel
Boone. They cut clearings in the forest and they built
log cabins. They planted fields and made new homes
along the trails. And so Daniel Boone helped to make
this country grow.

E
E is for EMIGRANTS
People who leave their own land to make
new homes in another land
Emigrants from all the different countries of the
world journeyed to this new land.
Our great-great-grandfathers, our grandfathers, even
perhaps our fathers, were all emigrants to America.
Some came to seek their fortunes. Many were
unhappy in their own countries and came here to
escape ways of living which had been forced upon
them. They left their homes in the Old World and
came to find homes in the New. They came to
America because this country stood for Freedom.
People from all over the world are still coming to
our shores. Good emigrants make true Americans.

F
F is for FREEDOM
That precious thing for which America stands
Those men and women who were the first settlers
in America came here to find freedom.
Freedom means the right to believe and to live as
one thinks best, and the right to worship God in
one’s own way.
The early settlers had to struggle to make their new
land free and their descendants have always fought to
preserve that freedom.
Today it is the will of every American to keep our
country the Land of the Free.

G
G is for GEORGE WASHINGTON
The Father of his country
One of the greatest of the men who worked for
America’s freedom was George Washington.
He was the son of a rich planter in Virginia. As a
young surveyor he rode long miles through dense forests
with his compass and his gun. As a young soldier he
was sent out to defend the frontier against attacks by
the Indians.
Later, when the American colonists knew that they
would have to fight for their independence, he was
made Commander in Chief of the army.
General Washington was fearless and wise. He was
just and strong and was loved and trusted by all his
followers. He was a leader in the making of this great
new nation
After independence was won, the people chose him
as the first President of the United States of America.

H
H is for HENRY HUDSON
A brave sea captain
Henry Hudson sailed the sea in the days when only
the red men lived in this country. He crossed the ocean
and explored the shores of the New World.
In the Half Moon, a tiny Dutch sailing vessel with
its prow built high out of the water, he found the
mouth of a river and sailed far up between its banks.
He explored northern waters which were blocked
with ice and fog. On his last voyage to America there
was mutiny on his ship, and an angry crew put the
brave captain and his son in a tiny open boat and
left it locked in icy waters.
Henry Hudson and his son were never seen again,
but from his daring voyages the people of the Old
World had learned much about America. They had
heard of the river later called the Hudson River and
of the great northern bay and the straits which bear
the name of this brave explorer.

I
I is for INDEPENDENCE
The Declaration of Independence
The many colonies established in America were
governed from the Old World. Fearless men of the
colonies believed that the rulers, who lived so far
away, were unjust and did not understand this New
World. They resolved that the colonies must be
independent and have the right to govern themselves
even if it meant fighting for this right.
In July, 1776, the great bell of the State House in
Philadelphia rang out. Excited men and women gathered
to listen to the first reading of a most important
paper. This was the Declaration of Independence,
prepared by young Thomas Jefferson of Virginia,
a friend of George Washington. It proclaimed that
the thirteen colonies were to be free and independent.
People shouted for joy as they listened to the
courageous words. Valiant leaders from all the colonies
boldly signed this Declaration of Independence. They
pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred
honor to its support.

J
J is for JAMESTOWN
A colony in Virginia
In the early days of America, a
company in London sent out a group
of men to found a colony in Virginia. These colonists
reached the coast of Virginia. They sailed up a river
and settled on its shores and called the little settlement
Jamestown after the king of the country from
which they had come.
Most of the men were knights and gentlemen and
merchants of London who had come to seek their
fortunes. They knew nothing of the hard work needed
to found a colony in a strange new land. It was the
great courage of a few that kept the little group alive.
Captain John Smith was one of these strong
leaders. When his colony was starving, it was he
who found a way to get corn from the unfriendly
Indians. After years of struggle the colony of Virginia
grew steadily.
From Virginia came many of those courageous
and stalwart men who were the leaders and the
builders of a great nation.

K
K is for KNICKERBOCKER
The name of a family of early Dutch colonists
Sturdy Dutchmen who heard about the river in
America which Henry Hudson had explored also came
to found a colony in this country. They settled on the
island of Manhattan at the mouth of Hudson’s river.
Here they built a stockade and a fort and traded
with the Indians.
The Dutch trading post grew to be the village
of New Amsterdam, named by the Dutch after their
much-loved city in Holland. New Amsterdam became
a center of trade between the colonists and
the Old World. When it passed into the hands of
the English, it was renamed New York.
Knickerbocker is the name of one of those Dutch
families who settled here. Now we use this word when
we talk of New York’s early history or the descendants
of those early New Amsterdam settlers.

L
L is for LINCOLN
Honest Abe Lincoln
Abraham Lincoln was an American born in the
poorest of log cabins. He grew up in the wilderness
of Indiana where there were no schools. In the
daytime the boy worked planting corn and cutting
trees. At night he studied and by the light of the fire
he read every book he could borrow.
Lincoln became a wise lawyer. The people throughout
the countryside loved and trusted him. He was
fearless although he was always just and kind.
He was chosen President at a time when America
was in grave danger. He worked, and finally died,
for two great causes —to free the Negroes from
slavery, and to keep this country a united nation.
In his famous Gettysburg Address he told his
countrymen that they must see that this “government
of the people, by the people, for the people shall not
perish from the earth.” Today, as in the past, this is
the great and glorious task of every true American.

M
M is for MAYFLOWER
The Pilgrim's ship
It was the Pilgrims who founded one of the
important colonies of the New World. They were
people who had wandered from one country to
another searching for a place where they could
worship God in their own way.
About one hundred of them, men, women, and
children set out for America in a tiny ship named
the Mayflower. After nine long weeks on the rough
seas, it was nearly Christmastime when the ship
reached the coast of New England.
Here the Pilgrims landed, and the settlement of
Plymouth was started.
The Mayflower returned to England, leaving the
little band of settlers in their new home.
The Pilgrims suffered cruelly from cold and from
hunger that first harsh winter, and only a few of the
group survived. But their spirit was never broken,
and the courage and the faith of those Pilgrims helped
to build our country.

N
N is for NATIONAL ANTHEM
"The Star Spangled Banner"
When the United States was fighting on the seas,
an American named Francis Scott Key was held
prisoner on an enemy ship.
That night the guns of this ship were firing on
Fort McHenry. As the black sky was lighted up, the
prisoner could see his country’s flag flying over the
fort in the distance.
The battle went on and on. Then the firing ceased
and everything was still. Francis Scott Key waited
in the darkness.
At last the daylight came. His heart was full of joy
as he saw his country’s flag still flying from the fort.
It was then that he wrote the words of the great
song “The Star Spangled Banner.” This song is now
our National Anthem.

O
O is for OLD GLORY
Our country’s flag
When the thirteen colonies of America declared
themselves independent states, they needed a flag of
their own.
It is said that General Washington drew a picture
of a flag and took it to Betsy Ross, the wife of one of
his soldiers.
With her scissors Betsy Ross cut seven long strips of
red cloth and six long strips of white, and sewed them
together neatly. In one corner she placed a square patch
of blue cloth. On the blue square she carefully sewed
thirteen white stars in the form of a circle. There was
a stripe and a star for each of the colonies.
A star has been added for each new state as it
came into the Union. Today the American flag still
has the thirteen stripes but there are forty-eight stars
in the blue square.

P
P is for PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The salute to our flag
This is the promise of loyalty to our country which
is in the heart of every true American.
“I pledge allegiance to the flag
of the United States of America,
and to the Republic for which it
stands, one Nation, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all.”

Q
Q is for QUAKERS
And Quakers are Friends
Among the early settlers of our country were the
Quakers. One of the greatest Quakers was William
Penn. He founded the colony of Pennsylvania and
laid out Philadelphia, which means the City of
Brotherly Love.
Penn made a treaty with the Indians which was kept
so faithfully that the Quaker colony and the Indians
were always at peace.
The Quakers are sometimes called Friends. They
are friendly toward all people and have always been
ready to help anyone suffering or in trouble no matter
who he may be or in what country he may live.
The friendly Quakers believe in the simple way of
living. They are a people who believe in peace.

R
R for REDSKINS
The first real Americans
When Columbus reached America he thought he
had found India and so he called the red-skinned
people of the country Indians.
Long before the coming of the white men, tribes of
redskins with their families were living in America.
Their land was taken from them as more and more
white men settled here. Many of the tribes were hostile,
but there were friendly Indians too.
Squanto was one of the friendly redskins. He brought
the Pilgrims corn to eat during that first winter when
they were starving. W'hen spring came and “the oak
leaves were the size of a mouse’s ear," Squanto taught
the Pilgrims to bury a fish with the kernels of corn they
planted so that the stalks would grow more quickly.
He taught the hungry Pilgrim children how to tread
the stream for eels, which they could cook and eat.
The redskins or Indians of North and South America
were the first real Americans.

S
S is for SOUTH AMERICA
and for Simon Bolivar
In this New World which Columbus found there
are two great continents, the continents of North
America and South America.
The southern America also struggled and won its
freedom just as did North America. Simon Bolivar
was one of the great leaders who helped to win this
independence for South America.
Today South America is made up of republics
which believe in liberty and the rights of people.
These republics are governed by laws much like those
of the United States in North America.
The nations of these two neighboring continents
have now come together in an All-American Union,
a Pan American Union for peace and friendship
and help to one another.

T
T is for THANKSGIVING
A day set aside to give thanks
The Pilgrims gave us Thanksgiving.
After they had gathered their first harvest in this
country, they rejoiced to find they had plenty for the
coming winter. Governor Bradford, the head of this
little New England colony, invited the friendly Indian
chief and his braves to come and celebrate with them.
Together they feasted on corn and pumpkins, on
wild turkey, and on the deer which the Indians
brought from the forest. This first Thanksgiving lasted
three days, for the hearts of the Pilgrims were full of
thankfulness to God.
It was President Lincoln who first declared
Thanksgiving a holiday. Each November a special
day is set aside by the government for us to give
thanks for the many good things we have in America.
is for the UNITED STATES Our United States of America.

T
The Author-Artists
Boys and girls are indebted to
Maud and Miska Petersham for a
long list of favorite story books.
There is The Ark of Father Noah and Mother Noah that small children
love, Miki and Miki and Mary
for those a little older, and for children
of all ages, the beautiful
Christ Child. In the Storybooks of
Things We Use they have brought
young readers much useful and interesting
information and in their
Bible Storybooks they interpret
the great stories with reverence and
beauty. These are only a few of the
Petershams’ gifts to the children’s
bookshelves, for we have not only
their own books, but the many
books of other authors which they
have illustrated.
Miska was born in Hungary.
Maud came from New York. Now
they live in Woodstock, New York,
with their son Miki who is all
grown up and ready for college. In
their studio there they try to keep
pace with their many ideas for more
children's books.

T
This is America

T
This is one of the twenty-six color plates in this outstanding picture book—
An American
By Maud and Miska Petersham
Two favorite authors present a panorama of our national heritage. “A is for America, the land we love” and B, —C, —D—and all the rest of the alphabet, represent those people, events, and attributes, that have made our country, and for which it stands. Finally ”Z is for zeal”—the zeal that discovered America, that built it and that keeps it today, a land of liberty and freedom.
Twenty-six beautiful full page illustrations in color face twenty-six dramatic stories of the American spirit. We read of Columbus and Washington and Lincoln,—of Freedom and Independence, —of Old Glory and our National Anthem,—of the Liberty Bell and of Valley Forge. Text and pictures together make a treasure house of America’s story.
Here is a gay book but a serious one—a simple book but a book of great distinction. Here is a beautiful book planned first as a picture book for small children, but which will also interpret our country to newcomers from foreign lands, a book for every American whether he be five or fifty.
Cloth, 8 x 10 inches.
$2.00

U
U is for the UNITED STATES
Our United States of America
When the thirteen colonies declared themselves
independent states, the United States of America
was formed.
The early leaders drew up wise rules of government
for this new nation which they called the American
Constitution. This Constitution is still the basis of
our government, a government founded on truth, on
justice, and on the rights of men.
The United States of America now contains
forty-eight states and the two territories of Hawaii
and Alaska. It is today a great nation reaching from
the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean.
Facing the sea in the harbor of New York, stands
the bronze Statue of Liberty. This welcoming figure
with a torch in her upraised hand is a symbol of the
American spirit.

V
V is for VALLEY FORGE
and the valor of our soldiers
During the war for freedom and independence,
General George Washington and his soldiers were
encamped for the winter at Valley Forge, a small
village near Philadelphia.
The soldiers had but little food and were poorly
equipped. Some were without shoes and coats and lived
in rough huts built of boughs. The shivering soldiers
gathered around the campfires to keep from freezing.
But these men had great courage and valor. Day
after day in the snow and cold they faithfully drilled
and made ready for the coming battles. They were
fighting for the independence of their country.
It was the valor of men like these at Valley Forge
that won freedom for America.

W
W is for WHITE HOUSE
and the city of Washington,
the home of our government
The President is the head of the government of
the United States. While he is in office he lives
in the city of Washington, our nation's capital. The
President’s home is called the White House and is a
large stone house painted white. It is surrounded
with beautiful green lawns and great trees.
All the Presidents of our country except George
Washington have lived at the White House. But
even our first President helped to plan this home,
and the city which is named for him.
The city of Washington is in the District of
Columbia. It has many fine government buildings
and very beautiful parks. Broad avenues lead up to
the capitol building.
Here on the steps of the Capitol our President
takes the oath of office and promises to preserve,
to protect, and to defend the Constitution of the
United States of America.

X
X is for XMAS
and Xmas means Christmas
This great holiday is a day of joy and happiness
for all the Christian world.
The first Christmas came to pass long ago when in
Bethlehem a glowing star suddenly appeared in the
heavens. That night the Christ Child was born and a
joyful message was sent to all the world: “Glory to
God in the highest and on earth peace, good will
toward men.”
Each year, on December twenty-fifth, we celebrate
the birthday of the Christ Child and recall the
great Christmas message which is a part of the spirit
of America.

Y
Y is for YANKEE DOODLE
A song of the early soldiers
The first American soldiers were men who gathered
quickly from towns and fields and frontiers of all
the many colonies. They were untrained soldiers. Few
had uniforms and all had poor equipment. They
made a strange-looking army.
Someone wrote a song making fun of these early
soldiers. It was called “Yankee Doodle” and the
words were sung to an old, old tune:
‘Yankee Doodle came to town,
Riding on a pony;
He stuck a feather in his hat
And called it macaroni.”
The soldiers took this song as their own and
proudly sang it as they marched. “Yankee Doodle”
became the much-loved song of those staunch early
Americans, and we still sing it today.

Z
Z is for ZEAL
An American trait
It was zeal which made navigators of old voyage
over dangerous seas and find this New World.
It was zeal that gave the early settlers the strength
and the courage to build their homes in the great
wilderness of a strange new land.
It was zeal that kept the colonies together and won
for them their independence.
It is this same zeal that will keep America a great
land and a land of liberty and freedom.

