A
A stands for Adam, the parent of all;

A
Aa Bb

B
B for Belshazzar, who trembled with fear,
When he saw on the wall the hand-writing appear.

C
C Children of Israel, who passed through the sea.
By Moses divided, a dry path to be.

C

D
D was Daniel who fearing
his God more than men,
Was saved quite unhurt in the fierce lion’s den.

D
Dd Ee Ff

E
E was Esau, who being with hunger half dead,
Sold his birth-right to Jacob, for pottage and bread.

F
F was the Feast where our Saviour, benign,
By his Divine power, turned water to wine.

G
G was Goliath, the Giant, o’erthrown,
By young David's hand, with a sling and a stone.

G

H
H was Herod, the King
of Judea, in whose reign
Christ was born; and the Children of Bethlehem slain.

H
Hh Ii Jj

I
I was Isaac, whom Abraham for sacrifice bound.
When the Lord saved his life, and an offering found.

J
J was Joseph, who early a Godly life chose,
And, though sold by his Brethren, to great honors rose.

K
K was the King, who gave Joseph command,
When he prophesied famine would come o’er the land.

K

L
L was Laban with whom
Jacob fourteen years staid,
That Leah’s sister, fair Rachel, his wife might he made.

L
Ll Mm Nn

M
M was Moses, who filled the King Pharoah with dread.
And the Israelites out of captivity led.

N
N was Noah, for whose safety the Ark was designed,
When the deluge destroyed all the rest of mankind.

O
O was Og, King of Bashan, whose kingdom was won
By the children of Israel, as they journeyed on.

O

P
P was Pilate, before
whom our Savior was brought,
When his life by the priests and the people was sought.

P
Pp Qq Rr

Q
Q was the Queen, who, allured by the fame
Of Solomons wisdom, to visit him came.

R
R was Ruth, the good daughter, who would not withdraw
From the side of Naomi, her mother-in-law.

S
S was Samuel, the prophet, and judge, by whose hand,
Saul was made King of Israel, to rule o’er the land.

S

T
T was the Temple, so
costly and grand,
By Solomon built, but by David first planned.

T
THE BRIDGES.
London stands, as most of you know, on the two sides of the river Thames. The part on the North side is called the Cities of London and Westminster, and that on the South side the Borough of Southwark. These two parts are united by a Tunnel and six fine Bridges. The Tunnel is dug under the river, and is not far from the Custom House. The Bridge nearest the Tunnel is London Bridge, on the same spot as a bridge is said to have stood when the Romans were in England. The present bridge is a very noble one, and was built of Aberdeen granite, only a few years ago. Next to this is Southwark Bridge, built of iron, and having only three great arches; and not far from it is Blackfriar’s Bridge, formed of stone. Then follows Waterloo Bridge, finely built of granite, and having its name from the Battle of Waterloo, which was fought about the same time as it was built. Just beyond, is the newest of all the bridges, called Hungerford Suspension Bridge, which you see in the picture. Still further up the river, are Westminster and

T
THE MARKETS, ETC.
Vauxhall Bridges; the first, the oldest of all the bridges, is of stone, and the second of iron.
THE MARKETS.
London is better supplied than any place in the world with vegetables, fruit, flowers, and almost everything else. Now railways are laid down in all directions, the most perishable things are often brought from very great distances. There are a great number of markets in different parts of the City; and the most famous of them is called Covent Garden Market. I should recommend all my young friends who have it in their power, to visit this market as early as five or six o’clock, some fine morning in Spring. The display of flowers is then very beautiful, and such as is well worth taking some pains to see.
THE BAZAARS.
The Bazaars are large places where tradespeople who do not keep shops of their own,

T
THE ROYAL EXCHANGE.
The Exchange is a place where merchants meet to transact their business. It is a large and richly adorned stone building, finished only a year or two ago. Prince Albert laid the first stone, and this ceremony was performed under a fine tent or pavilion, erected for the occasion, as is represented in the picture.
The old Royal Exchange was built by Sir Thomas Gresham, in the days of Queen Elizabeth. It was destroyed by fire a few

T
THE ROYAL EXCHANGE.
can have' convenient places to otter their goods for sale; and as they contain a great variety of pretty and useful things, all brought together within a very small compass, they are very well worth visiting. The largest of the Bazaars is in Soho Square, and is called the Soho Bazaar; but one of the most attractive is the Pantheon, in Oxford Street. The Lowther Bazaar is in the Strand, opposite the Lowther Arcade.

T
THE TOWER.
What is called “ The Tower of London” covers a large extent of ground, and is surrounded by an old ditch or moat, which is now dry and converted into a sort of garden. As you enter, you go over this moat by a bridge and enter a strong grim-looking gate-way, and on the right is “ the traitors’ gate” as it is called, a gate which opens to the river Thames, through which, in ancient times, traitors used to be brought who were to be imprisoned in the Tower. On the left is another gate-way, defended by a portcullis, through which you pass. Just over this gate-way is a room in which the poor young King Edward the Fifth and his brother the Duke of York were murdered by the command of their wicked uncle, who was afterwards King Richard the Third. When you have passed the gate-way, on the left is a flat space of ground, on which state criminals used to be beheaded; and on the right is the most interesting part of the tower. It is the large square building, with four round towers at the corners, which is the principal

T
THE TOWER.
object in the whole group of buildings. The name by which it is known is “ The White Tower,” although its colour is now far enough from white, being a dirty dark grey.
One corner of this building is said to have been built by Julius Caesar; but it is more likely to have been erected in the time of William the Conqueror. Within, there is the famous Horse Armoury, containing a very fine collection of armour belonging to different ages from the time of Edward I. Here is also the room in which Sir Walter Raleigh was imprisoned, and the block and axe with which he was beheaded. Underneath are the dungeons in which the Martyrs were confined in Queen Mary’s reign.
A little way from the White Tower, is “The Jewel Office,” where the crown and sceptre, and other jewels belonging to the Sovereign, are kept; and close by this is the spot where the modern armoury once stood, containing a vast number of muskets and swords, that was burned down a few years ago, as represented in the picture.

T
THE ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS
Here you may see lions and tigers from the hottest parts of the world, and Polar bears and seals from the coldest; the large elephant, the tall giraffe, the slender antelope, the bounding kangaroo, and the crawling sloth; monkeys of a hundred kinds, the handsome impatient zebra, and the quiet camel. The variety of birds is not less : you may see them of all sizes, from the giant ostrich to the little wren; of all colours, of all dispositions; of all notes, from the nightingale to the peacock. And what makes the visit to these places so pleasant is, that all the creatures seem to be healthy, well fed and happy.
In the Surrey Gardens, there are frequently concerts and brilliant displays of fire-works. The fire-works are so managed that they look at times as if they came from the mouth of a vast volcano; and at other times as if they were thrown up from an illuminated city. These effects are produced by some models and paintings, which are very cleverly made and arranged so as to look like real objects.

T
THE ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS.
Of all that I saw in London, there was nothing that pleased me better than the Zoological Gardens. One of them, and by far the largest, is in the Regent’s Park; and the other is on the opposite side of the river Thames, and is called “The Surrey Zoological Gardens.”
In these beautiful places, animals of various kinds, from all parts of the world, are kept, and have every care taken of them, so as to make their abodes as much like their native places as possible. The houses in which those live who need to be kept under shelter arc very tastefully built; and there are shrubs, and trees, and water, wherever they can add to the comfort of the animals, or the beauty of the spot.

T
THE ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS.
years ago, and the present building stands upon the some spot.
Inside the Exchange, is a large statue of Queen Victoria; and in front of it, is a statue of the Duke of Wellington on horseback.

T
TOM’S FIRST TRIP LONDON.
CARTON AND CO.
LONDON.

T
TOM’S FIRST TRIP TO LONDON.
I shall never forget my feelings at the first sight of London. I came from Hull in a steam-boat; and when we had got up the Thames as far as Gravesend, I thought I had never seen so many ships together before, for there happened to be a large number there at that time, which could not get out of the river, owing to a contrary wind. But as we advanced towards London Bridge, and came opposite the Custom House, I saw more masts and rigging than I had thought before that the world contained. However, when I afterwards saw the docks, I found that even the view from the Custom House shewed me but a very small portion of the whole.
We landed at the Tower Steps; and as I had often seen pictures of the famous Tower of London, I knew the building in a moment. I made up my mind to see it as soon as I could.

T
Tt Uu Vv

U
U was Uzza, struck lifeless by heavenly might.
For touching God’s ark, which he knew was not right

V
V stands for the Vision to Jacob once given,
Of a ladder with angels descending from Heaven.

W
W was the Water which sprang forth, when God
Bid Moses to strike the hard rock with his rod.

W

X
X is meant for the Cross,
to which once cruel men
Did Jesus, our Lord, and our Saviour, condemn.

X
Xx Yy

Y
Y for the years in the winderness spent,
By the Israelites, when out of Egypt they went.

Z
Z was Zechariah, the Prophet, who told
How the Lord would, by Judas, for silver be sold.

Z

